Only use locals (#178)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2023/2023-01-22-only-use-locals-in-view-partials.md

---
title: "Only use locals in view partials"
description: "It helps keep your state manageable"
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: '2023/only-use-locals-in-view-partials'
  alt: "Local building sign"
  credit: "Priscilla Du Preez"
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/acNPOikiDRw"

---

> The Rails view layer is incredibly flexible, but can easily become tricky to manage even though it’s the main way our users and customers access our work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rails view layer, the main way our users and customers access our work, is incredibly flexible, but it can easily become tricky to manage.
```

https://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#using-partials

> Many Ruby teams 

Reviewer: Is this needed?

Maybe have an extra sentence beforehand explaining the two ways people may access variables?

> https://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#using-partials
> 
> Many Ruby teams 

Author: ```suggestion
It is easy to introduce bugs and scoping issues when using the views and [partials](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#using-partials) in a more complex Rails application.
```

## Instead of…

…accessing instance variables inside partials:

```ruby
# calling the partial
<%= render "user_email" %>

# inside the _user_email.html.erb partial
<%= @user.email %>
```

## Use…

…local variables to pass in context:

```ruby
# calling the partial
<%= render partial: "user_email", locals: { user: @user } %>

# inside the _user_email.html.erb partial
<%= user.email %>
```

## Why?

> This is primarily a good rule of thumb for maintenance and organisation in more complex projects. Rails explicitly allows a vast global scope in it's view environment, but many experienced developers (including me) have got themselves in trouble by reaching outside of a partial for a variable.

Reviewer: *This is primarily a good practice for better maintenance and organisation in more complex projects

Reviewer: *its

Author: ```suggestion
This is primarily a good practice for better maintenance and organisation in more complex projects. Rails explicitly allows a vast global scope in its view environment, but many experienced developers (including me) have got themselves in trouble by reaching outside of a partial for a variable.
```

> Additionally, by not using instance variables or “helper-ed” methods (like `current_user` or Rails’s CurrentAttributes) within your partials you make them more reliably cache-able, because the values you’re passing into them will be all the context required to build a cache key. Without this it would be possible to accidentally serve a cached partial with incorrectly scoped data.

Reviewer: *incorrectly-scoped

Can you not just say "helper methods"?

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, by not using instance variables or helper methods (like `current_user` or Rails’s CurrentAttributes) within your partials you make them more reliably cache-able, because the values you’re passing into them will be all the context required to build a cache key. Without this it would be possible to accidentally serve a cached partial with incorrectly-scoped data.
```

For example:

```ruby
# calling the partial
<%= render partial: 'things/thing', collection: @things, cached: true %>

# things/_thing.html.erb partial
<%= thing.name %>
<%= link_to "Edit", edit_thing_path(thing) if @user.admin? %>
```

> Multiple users will get the same partial pulled from the cache, either with the link to “Edit” or without, depending on which user rendered the page first. In addition you might not want the non-admin users to see the link, exposing a potential security hole.

Reviewer: So the main problem here is line 60 and the reference to `@user` in the partial, right? I think that could be made clearer!

Author: ```suggestion
The issue here is the user of `@user` in the partial.

Multiple users will get the same partial pulled from the cache, either with the link to “Edit” or without, depending on which user rendered the page first. In addition you might not want the non-admin users to see the link, exposing a potential security hole.
```

## Why not?

> There’s no _harm_ in using your globally scoped powers, if you’re careful. One of the benefits of using Rails when you first learn is it’s flexibility and ability to just _do stuff_. However as a project continues this flexibility is one of [Rails’s "sharp knives"](https://rubyonrails.org/doctrine#provide-sharp-knives), useful but easy to cut yourself.

Reviewer: *its

I think there's a clearer way of saying this. Essentially, sure you can employ the power of Rails but things only get harder as your project grows in scope!

Author: ```suggestion
There’s no _harm_ in using your globally scoped powers, if you’re careful. One of the benefits of using Rails when you first learn is its flexibility and ability to just _do stuff_. However as a project continues to grow in scope this flexibility can be a source of surprising bugs. This flexibility is often referred to as one of [Rails’s "sharp knives"](https://rubyonrails.org/doctrine#provide-sharp-knives), useful but easy to hurt yourself if you are not careful.
```

> With judicious and comprehensive testing (which you might want anyway) you can protect against the sort of issues you might see above.

Reviewer: Add something like: "If you do go down the variable route...with judicious and comprehensive..." And get rid of the parentheses part!

Author: ```suggestion
If you do go down the variable route you can protect against the sort of issues you might see above with judicious and comprehensive testing.
```

#### Recommendation

View partials, unless very well marshalled, can get disorganised and “messy” very quickly. Even when you’re using them without assuming global state.

> You might want to consider, on larger projects, reaching for some kind of component system. The main solution in the Rails world for this is [ViewComponent](https://viewcomponent.org/) which is used at Github. There’s also the [Phlex](https://www.phlex.fun/) library which is under very active development.

Reviewer: Choose disorganised or messy, I say! And make it one long sentence with the "Even when you're using them..." part.

Then: 

*For larger projects, you might want to consider reaching...

*GitHub

*_,_which is under very active development..

Author: ```suggestion
For larger projects, you might want to consider reaching for some kind of component system. The primary solution in the Rails world for this is [ViewComponent](https://viewcomponent.org/) which is used at GitHub. There’s also the [Phlex](https://www.phlex.fun/) library, which is under very active development.
```
